This document contains general guidelines for the creation of design patterns (DP) visualizations, text and code snippets, especially in the context of the BFO and CCO communities. The intent of DPs as understood in this document are numerous: they act as documentation for the ontology, insofar as they show how the resources in the ontology can be correctly used. They also provide a reusable template that can be implemented in a system using ontologies, for example to guide instantiation or to write SPARQL queries that look for the presence of a certain structure. The current status of the guidelines discussed and adopted in the NCOR CCO working group are the following:

1. A complete DP consists of these four files: a TEXT FILE with the Competency Questions the DP aims to answer, the Intent of the DP, and its graph structure in natural language (<title>.txt); a CODE FILE with the SPARQL queries formalizing the Competency Questions that can be run by the user (<title>.sprql); two VISUALIZATION FILES to graphically depict the DP via a Mermaid code, which GitHub renders natively into images (<title>.md), and a a high quality image file (<title>.png).
2. The DP code file need to represent a graph structure of instances related to each other using relations from the ontology itself or from web languages such as XML/RDF, OWL, etc. 
3. The DP code file should follow this [style guide](https://github.com/CommonCoreOntology/CommonCoreOntologies/discussions/317#discussioncomment-14215025) so that opaque identifiers, if viable, are used in the query, but they are made human-readable with aliases to their rdfs:labels via a SPARQL PREFIX.
4. The DP visualizations needs to have a clear and understandable legend.
5. The DP visualizations should have at least one parent class for each individual to make it clear where it fits in the BFO/CCO hierarchy. 
6. When the focus of the DP is explaining a relation, it's more general domain and range classes must be used. For example, a DP illustrating the relation "bfo:specifically dependends on" will use the class "bfo:Specifically Dependent Continuant" as the domain and "bfo:Independent Continunat" as the range, and not the classes "bfo:Quality" or "bfo:Material Entity", which are children of "bfo:Specifically Dependent Continuant" and "bfo:Independent Continunat", respectively.  
7. The DP visualizations needs to label relations with the exact rdfs:label taken by the ontology, plus the prefix of the ontology (i.e. "cco:agent in"). On a second line of the class node, add the URI of the relation too.
8. The DP visualizations needs to label classes with the exact rdfs:label taken by the ontology, plus the prefix of the ontology (i.e. "cco:Civilian Role"). On a second line of the class node, add the URI of the class too.
9. The DP visualizations needs to have instances named with human-friendly names, contrasted to mere acronyms or codes, if possible. For example, "John" can serve as the name of an instance of class "cco:Person". 
10. Always use number IDs at the end of lower case instance names, like "person 1" or "sledge 33", if no proper names for instances are available, like "Charles L. Kane" for a person, or "Rosebud" for a sledge.
11. Instance names serve the purpose of providing an example of what in the world the class structure could be used to represent. Nevertheless, it is up to the author of the DP to make it clear that the structure can be reused for different cases as well.
12. When a DP is completed and approved by the repo custodians with a merge of the pull request, the author of the DP must immediately copy the DP and make another pull request to the main [CCO repo](https://github.com/CommonCoreOntology) to make it part of the official CCO documentation.
